Covariance : allowing an object of more derived type to be assigned to a lesser derived type

  base class : has some common information
  derived class : will be more derived (base class info + derived class info)

Base b = new Derived(); eg : Shape class object made to point to Rectangle/circle class object

Contravariance : is applied more during argument passing to a function, that creating objects or variables

Delegate Types :

1. Predicate Delegates : is a delegate type that takes one input and returns a Boolean type. Can be with anonymous methods as well as lambda expression

2. Action Delegates : are delegate types that may or may not take any input, but does not return any type. Can be with anonymous methods as well as lambda expression


3. Function Delegates : are delegate types that can take 0 to 16 inputs. Has to return a value. Does not allow 'ref' and 'out' parameters. Can be with anonymous methods as well as lambda expression



Events : are hardware related interactions with the application, that in turn handles and responds to the event

User -> Events -> Delegates -> Method/s
This works on Publisher-subscriber models
Events enable a class/object to notify other classes when something occurs/happens

- The class that raises the event is Publisher
- The class that handles the event is subscriber
- Publishers determine when an event is raised
- Events can have multiple subscribers
- Subscribers can handle events from multiple publishers

Points to Note : 
1. The events are declared, raised in a class and associated with the event handlers using delegates that can be either in the same class or in other classes

2. The class containing the events is used to publish the event
3. Publisher is an object that contains the definition of the event and the delegate. The event-delegate association is also defined in this object.
4. Publisher class object invoked the event and notifies to other class/objects

Garbage Collection : It works on the managed heap memory 
It has an engine called as Optimization Engine
Garbage collection occurs if at least one of the below condition is met
 1. If the systems physical memory is low
 2. If the memory allocated to various objects in the heap exceed the pre defined threshold 
 3. If the GC.Collect() is called

Has 3 distinct phases:
  1. Marking Phase : A list of live objects are created in this phase
  2. Relocating Phase : all the objects that are not in the marking phase, are moved here
  3. Compacting Phase : all not required dead objects (orphaned) are released

Generations : Heap memory is organized into 3 generations
 Generation 0: all short lived objects
 Generation 1 : from 0 to here
 Generation 2 : from 1 to here  

Important Methods of GC : GetGeneration(), Collect(), GetTotalmemory()

Dispose() and Finalize() methods aid in Garbage Collection

Dispose() is called by the application either with the object or using a 'using block'
 The class has to implement IDisposable interface
Finalize() is called by the GC(runtime), before the object is eligible for collection


the keyword 'using' in C# has 3 usage
 1. to include the namespace
 2. to include static classes
 3. in the program block (automatically calls the Dispose method and deallocates the objects memory)


