Inheritance : extensions of existing object capabilities

single
multilevel inheritance

2 types of relations are seen in C# 1. is a relationship, 2. has a relationship(composition/aggregation)

1.)'is a ' relationship

class Vehicle{double cost, string make.... } 

class Car : Vehicle 
{
string cartype
string carcolor;
}

2.) 'has a' relationship

class Engine{ } car has an engine(engine type, power, manufacturer)


class Car{
   Engine engine;  //object of another class contained as a member in this class
   Accessories accessories;
 }

 case 1)both base type and derived do not have any constructors defined

1. If our class/classes does not have any constructor written the framework provides one i.e. default constructor (which is public by default)
  - When we create base object or derived, only the default constructor will be called

 case 2)both base and derived have defined empty constructors

2. When we create object of the base, then base types empty constructor will be invoked
   When we create object of the derived, then also the empty constructor of the base will be called, followed by the empty constructor of the derived

 case 3) when the Base class has overloaded constructors, with one empty constructor, and other as parameterized

  when we create an object of the base type without or with parameters, it matches  the signatures and calls accordingly.

  when we create an object of the derived type, then also it invokes the empty constructor of the base followed by the derived

case 4) base has only parameterized constructor

 when we create an object of the base type, it expects parameters to match the constructor, and then invokes

 when we create an object of the derived, it throws error saying it expects parameter value for the parent. 
  To handle the above situation, we write constructor in the derived that matches the parent constructor

Constructor Types : 

Private constructors  : that does not allow any direct objects to be instantiated
Protected constructors : that allow object creation by self and by all the derived types

internal constructors : allow object creation by any class within the assembly
public constructors : allow object creation by any class within the assembly
and also other assemblies
static constructors : 1. Is executed before any instance of the class is created
                      2. Is executed before any of the static members are referenced
                      3. Is executed after static fields/members are initialized if any
                      4. Does not take any access modifiers
                      5. Cannot take Parameters, and hence only one can exist/class
                      6. Is executed once during the program instantiation
                      7. cannot be called directly, but is called automatically 
 
  

Polymorphism : 
     Static Polymorphism / Early Binding / Static Binding
     Dynamic Polymorphism / Late Binding / Dynamic Binding
