Web Technologies

What is WWW? : World Wide Web
 Network of Information
  -A Uniform naming Scheme for locating resources on the Web (URI)
  -Protocol, for access to the named resources over the Web (HTTP)
  -Hyper Text, for easy navigation among resources (HTML)

Every Resource (document, images, audio, video, programs, application etc.) on the web has an address that can be accessed using the URI.

Eg : http://www.mysite.com/mypage
  1. The protocol to access the resource
  2. The name of the machine that is hosting the resource
  3. The resource itself

URI > (URN || URL)
URN : Uniform Resource Name  ( defines an item's identity)
URL : Uniform Resource Locator ( provides methods to find the item)

Eg : ISBN 0486275574 (urn)

Anatomy of a Web Page
  
 HTML + CSS + Javascript = Content + Style + Behaviour

Separation of Concerns : Easier to maintain, faster to code

HTML : Is the Life blood of the WWW. It represents the content or data the user is looking for
CSS :  Defines how web pages should appear. No plain HTML any more, do it in style
Javascript : Gives Dynamism to the other wise static html. This can be activated based on user interactions or behind the scenes

Web Site VS Web Application 

WebSite : front-end interface thru which the public interact with the business online
  - is like a foundation and can host several web applications
  - We can have a host of message board, a blog, photo gallery and many other types of web application under the site

Web Application : Services or applications specific to a business needs. This can integrate well with the Business, IT Infrastructure etc. 

Web Server : This is the actual server that hosts all the above.

W3C - World Wide Web Consortium formed by Tim Lee in the year 1994.
 It aims at a way of standardising the protocols, technologies to build the content, security etc.. 


Search Engines : A search engine operates like below
  web crawling - indexing - Searching

HTTP : Hypertext Transfer Protocol
   -It is a network protocol used to deliver virtually all resources on the www
   -It is an HTTP Client as it sends/receives requests to and from the server
   -It Operates on a default Port 8080, where it listens to the request


HTML : Hyper Text Markup Language. It is the publishing lang. of www
-basically made up of Tags, Elements, Attributes and values

   